examples/big_models_with_accelerate/README.md, before:

# Quantizing Big Models with HF Accelerate

`llmcompressor` integrates with `accelerate` to support quantizing large models such as Llama 70B and 405B, or quantizing any model with limited GPU resources.

## Overview

[`accelerate`]((https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/en/index)) is a highly useful library in the Hugging Face ecosystem that supports for working with large models, including:
- Offloading parameters to CPU
- Sharding models across multiple GPUs with pipeline-parallelism


### Using `device_map`

To enable `accelerate` features with `llmcompressor`, simple insert `device_map` in `from_pretrained` during model load.

```python
from llmcompressor.transformers import SparseAutoModelForCausalLM
MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct"

# device_map="auto" triggers usage of accelerate
# if > 1 GPU, the model will be sharded across the GPUs
# if not enough GPU memory to fit the model, parameters are offloaded to the CPU
model = SparseAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    MODEL_ID, device_map="auto", torch_dtype="auto")
```

`llmcompressor` is designed to respect the `device_map`, so calls to `oneshot` 
will work properly out of the box for basic quantization with `QuantizationModifier`,
even for CPU offloaded models. 

To enable CPU offloading for second-order quantization methods such as GPTQ, we need to 
allocate additional memory upfront when computing the device map. Note that this 
device map will only compatible with `GPTQModifier(sequential_update=True, ...)`

```python
from llmcompressor.transformers.compression.helpers import calculate_offload_device_map
from llmcompressor.transformers import SparseAutoModelForCausalLM,
MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct"

# Load model, reserving memory in the device map for sequential GPTQ (adjust num_gpus as needed)
device_map = calculate_offload_device_map(MODEL_ID, reserve_for_hessians=True, num_gpus=1)
model = SparseAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    MODEL_ID,
    device_map=device_map,
    torch_dtype="auto",
)
```

### Practical Advice

When working with `accelerate`, it is important to keep in mind that CPU offloading and naive pipeline-parallelism will slow down forward passes through the model. As a result, we need to take care to ensure that the quantization methods used fit well with the offloading scheme as methods that require many forward passes though the model will be slowed down.

General rules of thumb:
- CPU offloading is best used with data-free quantization methods (e.g. PTQ with `FP8_DYNAMIC`)
- Multi-GPU is fast enough to be used with calibration data-based methods with `sequential_update=False`
- It is possible to use Multi-GPU with `sequential_update=True` to save GPU memory, but the runtime will be slower

## Examples

We will show working examples for each use case:
- **CPU Offloading**: Quantize `Llama-70B` to `FP8` using `PTQ` with a single GPU
- **Multi-GPU**: Quantize `Llama-70B` to `INT8` using `GPTQ` and `SmoothQuant` with 8 GPUs

### Installation

Install `llmcompressor`:

```bash
pip install llmcompressor==0.1.0
```

### CPU Offloading: `FP8` Quantization with `PTQ`

CPU offloading is slow. As a result, we recommend using this feature only with data-free quantization methods. For example, when quantizing a model to `fp8`, we typically use simple `PTQ` to statically quantize the weights and use dynamic quantization for the activations. These methods do not require calibration data.

- `cpu_offloading_fp8.py` demonstrates quantizing the weights and activations of `Llama-70B` to `fp8` on a single GPU:

```bash
export CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0
python cpu_offloading_fp8.py
```

The resulting model `./Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct-FP8-Dynamic` is ready to run with `vllm`!

### Multi-GPU: `INT8` Quantization with `GPTQ`

For quantization methods that require calibration data (e.g. `GPTQ`), CPU offloading is too slow. For these methods, `llmcompressor` can use `accelerate` multi-GPU to quantize models that are larger than a single GPU. For example, when quantizing a model to `int8`, we typically use `GPTQ` to statically quantize the weights, which requires calibration data.

Note that running non-sequential `GPTQ` requires significant additional memory beyond the model size. As a rough rule of thumb, running `GPTQModifier` non-sequentially will take up 3x the model size for a 16-bit model and 2x the model size for a 32-bit model (these estimates include the memory required to store the model itself in GPU).

- `multi_gpu_int8.py` demonstrates quantizing the weights and activations of `Llama-70B` to `int8` on 8 A100s:

```python
export CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7
python multi_gpu_int8.py
```

The resulting model `./Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct-INT8-Dynamic` is quantized and ready to run with `vllm`!

## Questions or Feature Request?

Please open up an issue on `vllm-project/llm-compressor`

Commit message:

GPTQ: Depreciate non-sequential update option (#762)
* remove from gptq, apply style

* remove instances of sequential_update argument in GPTQ tests

* update examples

* update example tests

* documentation, remove from example

* apply style

* revert back to auto type

* apply style

---------

Co-authored-by: Dipika Sikka <dipikasikka1@gmail.com>

examples/big_models_with_accelerate/README.md, after:

# Quantizing Big Models with HF Accelerate

`llmcompressor` integrates with `accelerate` to support quantizing large models such as Llama 70B and 405B, or quantizing any model with limited GPU resources.

## Overview

[`accelerate`]((https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/en/index)) is a highly useful library in the Hugging Face ecosystem that supports for working with large models, including:
- Offloading parameters to CPU
- Sharding models across multiple GPUs with pipeline-parallelism


### Using `device_map`

To enable `accelerate` features with `llmcompressor`, simple insert `device_map` in `from_pretrained` during model load.

```python
from llmcompressor.transformers import SparseAutoModelForCausalLM
MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct"

# device_map="auto" triggers usage of accelerate
# if > 1 GPU, the model will be sharded across the GPUs
# if not enough GPU memory to fit the model, parameters are offloaded to the CPU
model = SparseAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    MODEL_ID, device_map="auto", torch_dtype="auto")
```

`llmcompressor` is designed to respect the `device_map`, so calls to `oneshot` 
will work properly out of the box for basic quantization with `QuantizationModifier`,
even for CPU offloaded models. 

To enable CPU offloading for second-order quantization methods such as GPTQ, we need to 
allocate additional memory upfront when computing the device map. Not doing so risks
potentially going out-of-memory.

```python
from llmcompressor.transformers.compression.helpers import calculate_offload_device_map
from llmcompressor.transformers import SparseAutoModelForCausalLM,
MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct"

# Load model, reserving memory in the device map for sequential GPTQ (adjust num_gpus as needed)
device_map = calculate_offload_device_map(MODEL_ID, reserve_for_hessians=True, num_gpus=1)
model = SparseAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    MODEL_ID,
    device_map=device_map,
    torch_dtype="auto",
)
```

### Practical Advice

When working with `accelerate`, it is important to keep in mind that CPU offloading and naive pipeline-parallelism will slow down forward passes through the model. As a result, we need to take care to ensure that the quantization methods used fit well with the offloading scheme as methods that require many forward passes though the model will be slowed down. If more gpu memory is not available, consider reducing the precision of the loaded model to a lower-width dtype such as `torch.bfloat16`.

## Examples

We will show working examples for each use case:
- **CPU Offloading**: Quantize `Llama-70B` to `FP8` using `PTQ` with a single GPU
- **Multi-GPU**: Quantize `Llama-70B` to `INT8` using `GPTQ` and `SmoothQuant` with 8 GPUs

### Installation

Install `llmcompressor`:

```bash
pip install llmcompressor==0.1.0
```

### CPU Offloading: `FP8` Quantization with `PTQ`

CPU offloading is slow. As a result, we recommend using this feature only with data-free quantization methods. For example, when quantizing a model to `fp8`, we typically use simple `PTQ` to statically quantize the weights and use dynamic quantization for the activations. These methods do not require calibration data.

- `cpu_offloading_fp8.py` demonstrates quantizing the weights and activations of `Llama-70B` to `fp8` on a single GPU:

```bash
export CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0
python cpu_offloading_fp8.py
```

The resulting model `./Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct-FP8-Dynamic` is ready to run with `vllm`!

### Multi-GPU: `INT8` Quantization with `GPTQ`

For quantization methods that require calibration data (e.g. `GPTQ`), CPU offloading is too slow. For these methods, `llmcompressor` can use `accelerate` multi-GPU to quantize models that are larger than a single GPU. For example, when quantizing a model to `int8`, we typically use `GPTQ` to statically quantize the weights, which requires calibration data.

Note that running non-sequential `GPTQ` requires significant additional memory beyond the model size. As a rough rule of thumb, running `GPTQModifier` non-sequentially will take up 3x the model size for a 16-bit model and 2x the model size for a 32-bit model (these estimates include the memory required to store the model itself in GPU).

- `multi_gpu_int8.py` demonstrates quantizing the weights and activations of `Llama-70B` to `int8` on 8 A100s:

```python
export CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7
python multi_gpu_int8.py
```

The resulting model `./Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct-INT8-Dynamic` is quantized and ready to run with `vllm`!

## Questions or Feature Request?

Please open up an issue on `vllm-project/llm-compressor`
