examples/sparse_2of4_quantization_fp8/README.md, before:

# Applying 2:4 Sparsity with Optional FP8 Quantization

This script demonstrates how to apply **2:4 structured sparsity** with and without **FP8 quantization** to the `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct` model using the `llm-compressor` library. The compressed model is optimized for memory efficiency and faster inference on supported GPUs.

> **Note:** FP8 dynamic precision computation is supported on Nvidia GPUs with CUDA Compute Capability 9.0 and above.


## Installation

To get started, install the `llm-compressor` library and its dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllm-project/llm-compressor.git
cd llm-compressor
pip install -e .
```

## Quickstart
Run the script with the following commands:

- Without FP8 Quantization:

```bash
python3 llama3_8b_2of4.py
```

- With FP8 Quantization:

```bash
python3 llama3_8b_2of4.py --fp8
```

The script compresses the Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct model using:

- **2:4 Structured Sparsity:** Applies structured pruning to reduce weights by 50%.
- **FP8 Quantization (Optional):** Enables dynamic quantization for further memory savings.


### Configuration

- Model: meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct
- Dataset: HuggingFaceH4/ultrachat_200k (train split)
- Calibration Samples: 512
- Maximum Sequence Length: 2048

## Steps to Run

1. **Select Model, Dataset, and Recipe**

The model and dataset are predefined in the script. The recipe dynamically adjusts the recipe based on 
whether FP8 quantization is enabled (--fp8 flag).

Example Recipe:

```python
recipe = [
    SparseGPTModifier(
        sparsity=0.5,
        mask_structure="2:4",
        sequential_update=True,
        targets=[r"re:model.layers.\d*$"],
    )
]

if fp8_enabled:
    recipe.extend([
        QuantizationModifier(
            targets=["Linear"],
            ignore=["lm_head"],
            scheme="FP8_DYNAMIC",
        ),
        ConstantPruningModifier(
            targets=[
                r"re:.*q_proj.weight", r"re:.*k_proj.weight", r"re:.*v_proj.weight",
                r"re:.*o_proj.weight", r"re:.*gate_proj.weight", r"re:.*up_proj.weight",
                r"re:.*down_proj.weight",
            ],
            start=0,
        ),
    ])
```

2. **Apply Compression**
The script applies compression using the oneshot function:

```python
oneshot(
    model=model,
    dataset=ds,
    recipe=recipe,
    max_seq_length=2048,
    num_calibration_samples=512,
)
```

3. **Save the Compressed Model**

The compressed model and tokenizer are saved to the output directory:

```python
model.save_pretrained(save_dir, save_compressed=True)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(save_dir)
```

Output Directories:
- Without FP8: `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-2of4-sparse`
- With FP8: `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-2of4-W8A8-FP8-Dynamic-Per-Token`

Save Model on disk without sparse_compression:

```python
model.save_pretrained(save_dir, save_compressed=True, no_sparse_compression=True)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(save_dir)
```

Note: This only affects how the model is saved on disk, and not the actual
pruning/quantization run.

### Validation

After compression, the script validates the model by generating a sample output:

```plaintext
========== SAMPLE GENERATION ============
Hello my name is ...
=========================================
```

**Notes:** 
- Ensure your GPU has sufficient memory (at least ~25GB) to run compression script.
- Use the `--fp8` flag to enable FP8 quantization.

Modify the `MODEL_ID` and `DATASET_ID` variables to use other models or datasets.
### Running in vLLM

Install vLLM using `pip install vllm`

```python

# run_model.py

import argparse
from vllm import LLM, SamplingParams

def run_inference(model_path, tensor_parallel_size, prompt="Hello my name is:"):
    """
    Loads a model and performs inference using LLM.
    """
    # Define sampling parameters
    sampling_params = SamplingParams(
        temperature=0.8,
        top_p=0.95,
    )
    # Load the model
    model = LLM(
        model=model_path, 
        enforce_eager=True,
        dtype="auto",
        tensor_parallel_size=tensor_parallel_size,
    )

    # Generate inference
    outputs = model.generate(prompt, sampling_params=sampling_params)
    return outputs[0].outputs[0].text

def main():
    """ Main function to handle CLI and process the model. """
    # Argument parsing
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description="Run inference on a single model and print results.")
    parser.add_argument(
        "model_path",
        type=str,
        help="Path to the model to perform inference."
    )
    parser.add_argument(
        "--tensor_parallel_size",
        type=int,
        default=1,
        help="Tensor parallel size for the model. Default is 1."
    )

    args = parser.parse_args()
    model_path = args.model_path
    tensor_parallel_size = args.tensor_parallel_size

    prompt = "Hello my name is:"

    # Load model and perform inference
    inference_result = run_inference(model_path, tensor_parallel_size)
    print("="* 20)
    print("Model:", model_path)
    print(prompt, inference_result)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

Command to run model:
```bash
python3 run_model.py <MODEL_PATH>
```

Example:
```bash
python3 run_model.py Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct2of4-W8A8-FP8-Dynamic-Per-Token
```

Commit message:

Address more comments Add Table in docstring Add test for compressor inference

examples/sparse_2of4_quantization_fp8/README.md, after:

# Applying 2:4 Sparsity with Optional FP8 Quantization

This script demonstrates how to apply **2:4 structured sparsity** with and without **FP8 quantization** to the `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct` model using the `llm-compressor` library. The compressed model is optimized for memory efficiency and faster inference on supported GPUs.

> **Note:** FP8 dynamic precision computation is supported on Nvidia GPUs with CUDA Compute Capability 9.0 and above.


## Installation

To get started, install the `llm-compressor` library and its dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllm-project/llm-compressor.git
cd llm-compressor
pip install -e .
```

## Quickstart
Run the script with the following commands:

- Without FP8 Quantization:

```bash
python3 llama3_8b_2of4.py
```

- With FP8 Quantization:

```bash
python3 llama3_8b_2of4.py --fp8
```

The script compresses the Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct model using:

- **2:4 Structured Sparsity:** Applies structured pruning to reduce weights by 50%.
- **FP8 Quantization (Optional):** Enables dynamic quantization for further memory savings.


### Configuration

- Model: meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct
- Dataset: HuggingFaceH4/ultrachat_200k (train split)
- Calibration Samples: 512
- Maximum Sequence Length: 2048

## Steps to Run

1. **Select Model, Dataset, and Recipe**

The model and dataset are predefined in the script. The recipe dynamically adjusts the recipe based on 
whether FP8 quantization is enabled (--fp8 flag).

Example Recipe:

```python
recipe = [
    SparseGPTModifier(
        sparsity=0.5,
        mask_structure="2:4",
        sequential_update=True,
        targets=[r"re:model.layers.\d*$"],
    )
]

if fp8_enabled:
    recipe.extend([
        QuantizationModifier(
            targets=["Linear"],
            ignore=["lm_head"],
            scheme="FP8_DYNAMIC",
        ),
        ConstantPruningModifier(
            targets=[
                r"re:.*q_proj.weight", r"re:.*k_proj.weight", r"re:.*v_proj.weight",
                r"re:.*o_proj.weight", r"re:.*gate_proj.weight", r"re:.*up_proj.weight",
                r"re:.*down_proj.weight",
            ],
            start=0,
        ),
    ])
```

2. **Apply Compression**
The script applies compression using the oneshot function:

```python
oneshot(
    model=model,
    dataset=ds,
    recipe=recipe,
    max_seq_length=2048,
    num_calibration_samples=512,
)
```

### Saving the Compressed Model

The compressed model and tokenizer are saved to the output directory:

```python
model.save_pretrained(save_dir, save_compressed=True)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(save_dir)
```

Output Directories:
- Without FP8: `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-2of4-sparse`
- With FP8: `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-2of4-W8A8-FP8-Dynamic-Per-Token`

#### Saving Without Sparse Compression

To save the model on disk without sparse compression:

```python
model.save_pretrained(save_dir, save_compressed=True, no_sparse_compression=True)
tokenizer.save_pretrained(save_dir)
```

> **Note:** This will compress the model using the quantization compressor; however, instead of using the optimal sparsity compressor, the dense sparsity compressor will be used. This affects only how the model is saved on disk and does not change the actual pruning/quantization process.

### Validation

After compression, the script validates the model by generating a sample output:

```plaintext
========== SAMPLE GENERATION ============
Hello my name is ...
=========================================
```

**Notes:** 
- Ensure your GPU has sufficient memory (at least ~25GB) to run compression script.
- Use the `--fp8` flag to enable FP8 quantization.

Modify the `MODEL_ID` and `DATASET_ID` variables to use other models or datasets.
### Running in vLLM

Install vLLM using `pip install vllm`

```python

# run_model.py

import argparse
from vllm import LLM, SamplingParams

def run_inference(model_path, tensor_parallel_size, prompt="Hello my name is:"):
    """
    Loads a model and performs inference using LLM.
    """
    # Define sampling parameters
    sampling_params = SamplingParams(
        temperature=0.8,
        top_p=0.95,
    )
    # Load the model
    model = LLM(
        model=model_path, 
        enforce_eager=True,
        dtype="auto",
        tensor_parallel_size=tensor_parallel_size,
    )

    # Generate inference
    outputs = model.generate(prompt, sampling_params=sampling_params)
    return outputs[0].outputs[0].text

def main():
    """ Main function to handle CLI and process the model. """
    # Argument parsing
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description="Run inference on a single model and print results.")
    parser.add_argument(
        "model_path",
        type=str,
        help="Path to the model to perform inference."
    )
    parser.add_argument(
        "--tensor_parallel_size",
        type=int,
        default=1,
        help="Tensor parallel size for the model. Default is 1."
    )

    args = parser.parse_args()
    model_path = args.model_path
    tensor_parallel_size = args.tensor_parallel_size

    prompt = "Hello my name is:"

    # Load model and perform inference
    inference_result = run_inference(model_path, tensor_parallel_size)
    print("="* 20)
    print("Model:", model_path)
    print(prompt, inference_result)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

Command to run model:
```bash
python3 run_model.py <MODEL_PATH>
```

Example:
```bash
python3 run_model.py Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct2of4-W8A8-FP8-Dynamic-Per-Token
```
